Men were so trained to act together that they lost the freedom and spontaneity of human life in cultivating the qualities of the soldier and ruler. I said that there may have been singularity and danger in imposing such a custom at first, but that now there is not the same difficulty. Certainly. The remark, whether serious or ironical , that the sons of the Gods naturally believed in the Gods, because they had the means of knowing about them, is found in the Timaeus. But we stopped short, because we saw that these sufferings are infinite in number and degree, and that they are, at once, the most just and also the most dishonourable of all sufferings.

You seem to imply, my friend, that convivial meetings, when rightly ordered, are an important element of education.

I would beg of you to be patient, and learn the truth of the legislator and others in the mean time abstain from impiety.

Nothing great can be accomplished in the short space of human life wherefore also we look forward to another. But your legislators, Megillus, as I maintain, only half did their work they took care of the men, and left the women to take care of themselves. There is no meanness in requiring that the smallest vessels should have a common measure for the divisions of number are useful in measuring height and depth, as well as sounds and motions, upwards or downwards, or round and round.

Wherefore also the murderer must go out of the way of his victim for the entire period of a year, and not himself be found in any spot which was familiar to him throughout the country. In order to retaliate, an Athenian has only to point out the licence which exists among your women.

Hello, World!

And now, let us proceed to legislate with a view to perfecting the form and outline of our state. For example, when men are prosecuted for having lost their arms, great care should be taken by the witnesses to distinguish between cases in which they have been lost from necessity and from cowardice.

That which is the most familiar process of our own minds, to him appeared to be the crowning achievement of the dialectical art. More than in any other writing of Plato the tone is hortatory the laws are sermons as well as laws they are considered to have a religious sanction, and to rest upon a religious sentiment in the mind of the citizens.

Total abstinence for the young, moderate and increasing potations for the old, is Platos principle. And pleasure is not the same with passion, but has an opposite power, working her will by persuasion and by the force of deceit in all things. But how must the state educate those who do not as yet understand the language of the country, and are therefore incapable of appreciating any sort of instruction. There shall be a limit of time in the case of disputed things, and he who has had possession of them during a certain time shall no longer be liable to be disturbed.

Death was the punishment for taking a bribe, both at Athens and in the Laws but Athenian law offered an alternative - the payment of a fine of ten times the amount of the bribe. In the first place, such visits will be rare, and the visitor should be at least fifty years of age he may possibly be wanting to see something that is rich and rare in other states, or himself to show something in like manner to another city. Nor does the thought of such a thing ever enter at all into the minds of most of them. The officers of the temples shall be appointed by lot in this way their election will be committed to God, that He may do what is agreeable to Him.

In what respect. But enough of gymnastics, and nearly enough of music. The adjustment of the divine and human elements in the world is conceived in the spirit of modern popular philosophy, differing not much in the mode of expression. The two who have the greatest number of votes shall be leaders of all the horse. You will surely grant so much.

The class of elder and younger men and women are still to regard one another, as in the Republic, as standing in the relation of parents and children.

Now the sort of love which is made up of the other two is that which we have described as the third. You admit that wine stimulates the passions. Thus much of the courts of law, which, as I was saying, cannot be precisely defined either as being or not being offices a superficial sketch has been given of them, in which some things have been told and others omitted. Excellent.

Then may Heaven make us to be of one mind, for now we are of two. Of the words of the ancients I have nothing more to say and I should wish to say of them only what is pleasing to the Gods.

They hold no parley with their patients about their diseases or the remedies of them they practise by the rule of thumb, and give their decrees in the most arbitrary manner. It is therefore rash to say with Oncken (Die Staatslehre des Aristoteles) that the form in which Aristotle knew the Laws of Plato must have been different from that in which they have come down to us.

Between the judicial system of the Laws and that of Athens there was very great similarity, and a difference almost equally great. Let me ask you to take the moral of my tale. To be absolutely sure of the truth of matters concerning which there are many opinions, is an attribute of the Gods not given to man, Stranger but I shall be very happy to tell you what I think, especially as we are now proposing to enter on a discussion concerning laws and constitutions. The reason has been already explained. The first class shall be only imprisoned and admonished.

Having finished the preamble, and touched on some other preliminary considerations, we proceed to the Laws, beginning with the constitution of the state. Though he is no longer fired with dialectical enthusiasm, he would compel the guardians to look at one idea gathered from many things, and to perceive the principle which is the same in all the four virtues. What you have said appears to me to be very reasonable, but will you favour me by stating a little more clearly the difference between hurt and injustice, and the various complications of the voluntary and involuntary which enter into them.

For the youths we will fix the length of the contest at two-thirds, and for the boys at half of the entire course, whether they contend as archers or as heavy-armed. Death or expulsion was the Athenian penalty for impiety.

Evidence. What question.

In the election of councillors Plato introduces a further check they are not to be chosen directly by lot from all the citizens, but from a select body previously elected by vote.

They must minimize the appetites, diverting the vigour of youth into other channels, allowing the practice of love in secret, but making detection shameful. Why, because I am going to enact that the bridegrooms should live at the common tables, just as they did before marriage.

But, if they are such as we conceive them to be, can we possibly suppose that they ever act in the spirit of carelessness and indolence.

To all which matters the guardian and magistrate ought to apply his mind, if he has any, and take heed of the nurture and education of the orphans, seeking in every possible way to do them good, for he is making a contribution to his own good and that of his children. How then can we rightly order the distribution of the land. The Goddess Harmonia plays a great part in Platos ideas of education. And now that these matters, and the buildings about the agora, and the gymnasia, and places of instruction, and theatres, are all ready and waiting for scholars and spectators, let us proceed to the subjects which follow marriage in the order of legislation. Cronos, then lord of the world, knew that no mortal nature could endure the temptations of power, and therefore he appointed demons or demi-gods, who are of a superior race, to have dominion over man, as man has dominion over the animals.

All purchases and exchanges are to be made in the agora, and paid for on the spot the law will not allow credit to be given. And is any harm done to the lover of vicious dances or songs, or any good done to the approver of the opposite sort of pleasure. These shall be appointed, one out of each tribe, and their duty shall be to keep order at the meetings slaves who break the rules laid down by them, they shall punish by the help of some of the public slaves but citizens who dispute their authority shall be brought before the magistrates. But the evil which is remediable should be dealt with more in sorrow than anger. The mode of election which has been described is in a mean between monarchy and democracy, and such a mean the state ought always to observe for servants and masters never can be friends, nor good and bad, merely because they are declared to have equal privileges.

For the love of novelty which arises out of pleasure in the new and weariness of the old, has not strength enough to corrupt the consecrated song and dance, under the plea that they have become antiquated. There is only one proposal which I have to offer, and that is one which, under our circumstances, is both necessary and expedient. Perhaps you will ask me what is the bearing of these remarks.

The love of listening which is attributed to the Timocrat in the Republic is also exhibited in him. It comes from the study of ourselves and other men from moderation and experience from reflection on circumstances from the pursuit of high aims from a right use of the opportunities of life. We have seen the rise of a first, second, and third state, during the lapse of ages and now we arrive at a fourth state, and out of the comparison of all four we propose to gather the nature of laws and governments, and the changes which may be desirable in them. Then let us return once more to what we were saying at first. But we are considering not how our choristers, who are from thirty to fifty years of age, and may be over fifty, are not to use the Muses, but how they are to use them.

Now the irregular strain of music is always made ten thousand times better by attaining to law and order, and rejecting the honeyed Muse - not however that we mean wholly to exclude pleasure, which is the characteristic of all music. Moreover, the greater number of the senators will have to be left during the greater part of the year to order their concerns at their own homes. And yet you also never ceased telling me that I should live as justly as possible. May He come.

Among ourselves we are very far from allowing every man to charge what he pleases. In autumn God gives us two boons - one the joy of Dionysus not to be laid up - the other to be laid up. Ought not the magistrates and officers of the state to instruct the citizens in the nature of virtue and vice, instead of leaving them to be taught by some chance poet or sophist. The point in dispute between the parties should be made clear and time, and deliberation, and repeated examination, greatly tend to clear up doubts.

Their riders are to wear armour, and there shall be a competition between mounted archers. And in like manner no one can be a true statesman, whether he aims at the happiness of the individual or state, who looks only, or first of all, to external warfare nor will he ever be a sound legislator who orders peace for the sake of war, and not war for the sake of peace. The manner of his burial and the purification of his crime is a matter for God and the interpreters to decide and for his kinsmen to execute. Hurts are voluntary and involuntary, but all hurts are not injuries on the other hand, a benefit when wrongly conferred may be an injury.

You understand me perfectly, Cleinias and we must assume, as the argument implies, that this council possesses all virtue and the beginning of virtue is not to make mistakes by guessing many things, but to look steadily at one thing, and on this to fix all our aims. What was the error. For no man likes to receive laws when they are first imposed could we only wait until those who had been educated under them were grown up, and of an age to vote in the public elections, there would be far greater reason to expect permanence in our institutions. But the object of our laws is to make the citizens as friendly and happy as possible, which they cannot be if they are always at law and injuring each other in the pursuit of gain. Both at Athens and in Plato there is a law about bees, the former providing that a beehive must be set up at not less a distance than 300 feet from a neighbours , and the latter forbidding the decoying of bees.

I mean this when one thing changes another, and that another, of such will there be any primary changing element. When a man is advancing in years, he is afraid and reluctant to sing - he has no pleasure in his own performances and if compulsion is used, he will be more and more ashamed, the older and more discreet he grows - is not this true.

A report, whether true or not, came to Athens that all the Eretrians had been netted and the Athenians in terror sent all over Hellas for assistance. Plato, like Aristotle, had in his mind some form of a mean state which should escape the evils and secure the advantages of both aristocracy and democracy.

To effect this is no easy matter, and requires a great deal of virtue. And what is beauty of figure, or beautiful melody. I will - Surely, they say, the governing power makes whatever laws have authority in any state.

Here are numbers enough for war and peace, and for all contracts and dealings.

More laws might have been made about orphans, did we not suppose that the guardians have children and property of their own which are protected by the laws and the duty of the guardian in our state is the same as that of a father, though his honour or disgrace is greater. Neither grants to the eldest son any special claim on the paternal estate. This was the case in two out of three of the Heracleid kingdoms.

What better and more innocent test of character is there than festive intercourse. Certainly. And to secure exactness, let the guardians of the law refer to the registers, and inform the judges of the precise truth, in order that none of the lots may go uncultivated for want of money.

Again, as to contributions, any man who likes may go about collecting contributions as a friend among friends, but if any difference arises about the collection, he is to act on the understanding that the law gives no protection in such cases. Nor shall the Gods below be forgotten, but they must be separated from the Gods above - Pluto shall have his own in the twelfth month. Do you mean some form of democracy, or oligarchy, or aristocracy, or monarchy. And this tenth kind of motion is the mightiest, and is really the first, and is followed by that which was improperly called the ninth. In my opinion, Cleinias, the ancient legislators were too good-natured, and made laws without sufficient observation or consideration of human things.

Let the law be as follows.

The precise 50-digits value of Pi is 3.14159265358979323846264338327950288419716939937510.

They do not escape the almost inevitable consequence of making irreligion penal. Enough of the preamble and now the laws should follow or, to speak more correctly, an outline of them. I quite agree.

Nay, more, if I were not afraid of appearing to be ridiculous, I would say that a woman during her year of pregnancy should of all women be most carefully tended, and kept from violent or excessive pleasures and pains, and should at that time cultivate gentleness and benevolence and kindness. And if we may assume that our whole discussion about the state has not been mere idle talk, I should like to prove to you, if you will consent to listen, that this institution is good and proper but if you had rather not, I will refrain. But if any of them, after having been acquitted on any occasion, begin to show the wickedness of human nature, he who pleases may bring them to trial before a court composed of the guardians of the law, and of the select judges, and of any of the examiners who are alive. Now it is difficult to determine accurately the things which are worthy or unworthy of a freeman, but let those who have obtained the prize of virtue give judgment about them in accordance with their feelings of right and wrong.

The arrangement might have been improved the connexion of the argument might have been made plainer, and the sentences more accurately framed.

Yes, they entirely desert him. As I said before, we shall see them more in detail, and shall be better able to lay down the laws which are proper or suited to them. The treatment of moral questions is less speculative but more human.

Well, then, proceeding in the same train of thought, I say that the greatest ignorance was the ruin of the Dorian power, and that now, as then, ignorance is ruin. I speak of mind, true and free, and in harmony with nature.

And with a view to them especially, and yet not without a provident eye to the weakness of human nature generally, I will proclaim the law about robbers of temples and similar incurable, or almost incurable, criminals. Thus, after digressing from the original subject of laws into music and drinking-bouts, the argument has, providentially, come back to the same point, and presents to us another handle. Right. All other goods must be sold in the market, at some place indicated by the magistrates, and shall be paid for on the spot.

The perfection of style is variety in unity, freedom, ease, clearness, the power of saying anything, and of striking any note in the scale of human feelings without impropriety and such is the divine gift of language possessed by Plato in the Symposium and Phaedrus. On the other hand, he who has ordered any work and does not pay the workman according to agreement, dishonours Zeus and Athene, and breaks the bonds of society. The answer to those who say that God cares not, is, that He governs by general laws and that he who takes care of the great will assuredly take care of the small. Telfys Corpus Juris Attici (Leipzig, 1868).

But at Sparta, if we may judge from the frequent complaints of the accumulation of property in the hands of a few persons (Arist. No one would deny that the test proposed is fairer, speedier, and safer than any other. Then the alternative which remains is, that if the Gods neglect the lighter and lesser concerns of the universe, they neglect them because they know that they ought not to care about such matters - what other alternative is there but the opposite of their knowing.

Of such an one the poems may be sung, even though he is not the best of poets. Wherefore we will thus address our citizens - Good friends, honour order and equality, and above all the number 5040.

The temples are to be placed all round the agora, and the whole city built on the heights in a circle (compare Arist. In all outrages and acts of violence, the elder is to be more regarded than the younger. Being no longer young, we may often stop to rest beneath them, and get over the whole journey without difficulty, beguiling the time by conversation. Yes, I do. Cleinias shall speak for himself, and tell you what is his opinion.

To be sure. What do you mean. Cases in which one man injures another by poisons, and which prove fatal, have been already discussed but about other cases in which a person intentionally and of malice harms another with meats, or drinks, or ointments, nothing has as yet been determined. The enmity to the sea is another Spartan feature which is transferred by Plato to the Magnesian state.
